1.	In 1.sql, write a SQL query to list the titles of all movies released in 2008.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the title of each movie.
2.	In 2.sql, write a SQL query to determine the birth year of Emma Stone.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column and a single row (not including the header) containing Emma Stone’s birth year.
o	You may assume that there is only one person in the database with the name Emma Stone.
3.	In 3.sql, write a SQL query to list the titles of all movies with a release date on or after 2018, in alphabetical order.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the title of each movie.
o	Movies released in 2018 should be included, as should movies with release dates in the future.
4.	In 4.sql, write a SQL query to determine the number of movies with an IMDb rating of 10.0.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column and a single row (not including the header) containing the number of movies with a 10.0 rating.
5.	In 5.sql, write a SQL query to list the titles and release years of all Harry Potter movies, in chronological order.
o	Your query should output a table with two columns, one for the title of each movie and one for the release year of each movie.
o	You may assume that the title of all Harry Potter movies will begin with the words “Harry Potter”, and that if a movie title begins with the words “Harry Potter”, it is a Harry Potter movie.
6.	In 6.sql, write a SQL query to determine the average rating of all movies released in 2012.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column and a single row (not including the header) containing the average rating.
7.	In 7.sql, write a SQL query to list all movies released in 2010 and their ratings, in descending order by rating. For movies with the same rating, order them alphabetically by title.
o	Your query should output a table with two columns, one for the title of each movie and one for the rating of each movie.
o	Movies that do not have ratings should not be included in the result.
8.	In 8.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all people who starred in Toy Story.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the name of each person.
o	You may assume that there is only one movie in the database with the title Toy Story.
9.	In 9.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all people who starred in a movie released in 2004, ordered by birth year.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the name of each person.
o	People with the same birth year may be listed in any order.
o	No need to worry about people who have no birth year listed, so long as those who do have a birth year are listed in order.
o	If a person appeared in more than one movie in 2004, they should only appear in your results once.
10.	In 10.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all people who have directed a movie that received a rating of at least 9.0.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the name of each person.
11.	In 11.sql, write a SQL query to list the titles of the five highest rated movies (in order) that Chadwick Boseman starred in, starting with the highest rated.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the title of each movie.
o	You may assume that there is only one person in the database with the name Chadwick Boseman.
12.	In 12.sql, write a SQL query to list the titles of all movies in which both Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter starred.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the title of each movie.
o	You may assume that there is only one person in the database with the name Johnny Depp.
o	You may assume that there is only one person in the database with the name Helena Bonham Carter.
13.	In 13.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all people who starred in a movie in which Kevin Bacon also starred.
o	Your query should output a table with a single column for the name of each person.
o	There may be multiple people named Kevin Bacon in the database. Be sure to only select the Kevin Bacon born in 1958.
o	Kevin Bacon himself should not be included in the resulting list.

ANSWERS
5.sql
SELECT title, year FROM movies WHERE title LIKE "Harry Potter%" ORDER BY year ASC;
6.sql
SELECT AVG(rating) FROM ratings JOIN movies ON ratings.movie_id = movies.id WHERE movies.year = 2012;
7.sql
SELECT movies.title, ratings.rating FROM movies 
JOIN ratings ON movies.id = ratings.movie_id
WHERE year = 2010 ORDER BY ratings.rating DESC, movies.title;
8.sql
SELECT people.name FROM people 
JOIN stars ON people.id = stars.person_id 
WHERE stars.movie_id = (SELECT movies.id FROM movies WHERE title = "Toy Story");
9.sql
SELECT people.name FROM people
JOIN stars ON people.id = stars.person_id
WHERE stars.movie_id IN (SELECT movies.id FROM movies WHERE year = 2004)
ORDER BY people.birth;
10.sql
SELECT people.name FROM people
JOIN directors ON people.id = directors.person_id
JOIN ratings ON directors.movie_id = ratings.movie_id
WHERE ratings.rating >= 9;
11.sql
SELECT movies.title FROM movies
JOIN ratings ON movies.id = ratings.movie_id
JOIN stars ON movies.id = stars.movie_id
JOIN people ON stars.person_id = people.id
WHERE people.name = "Chadwick Boseman"
ORDER BY ratings.rating DESC
LIMIT 5;
12.sql
SELECT movies.title FROM movies
JOIN stars ON movies.id = stars.movie_id
JOIN people ON people.id = stars.person_id
WHERE movies.id IN 
(SELECT stars.movie_id FROM stars WHERE stars.person_id = (SELECT people.id FROM people WHERE people.name = "Johnny Depp")) 
AND movies.id IN 
(SELECT stars.movie_id FROM stars WHERE stars.person_id = (SELECT people.id FROM people WHERE people.name = "Helena Bonham Carter"));
13.sql
SELECT people.name FROM people
JOIN stars ON people.id = stars.person_id
JOIN movies ON stars.movie_id = movies.id
-- JOIN stars ON movies.id = stars.movie_id
WHERE movies.id IN 
(SELECT stars.movie_id FROM stars 
WHERE stars.person_id = (SELECT people.id FROM people WHERE people.name = "Kevin Bacon" AND people.birth = 1958))
AND people.name != "Kevin Bacon";
